# Geo-server

This is a test task.

## Task description

Design and implement a geo-server. It must provide the following REST API.

* Method to check that a user is nearby to a label or not by the following rule:
if a distance between a current user coordinates and the label coordinates, calculated by [Haversine formula](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haversine_formula),
is less than an error, the user is nearby, otherwise is not.

* Method to get a count of labels in a given area (labels are distributed in bound areas).

* Method to change the coordinates (lat, lon) of a user label.

## Generate data.

The following data should be generated in csv format.

Labels table:

user id      | lat    | lon
------------ | ------ | -------
 long        | double | double

"Grid" table:

error*       | lat    | lon
------------ | ------ | -------
 int         | double | double

error* - distance error

## Implementation details

The data was generated by org.sherman.geo.generator.GeneratorsTest script.
At first, a user data was generated randomly selecting a point in a radius of 10000 meters. All points (about 1 million) are located in the area of Moscow city.
Then, a "grid" table was generated based on user data table transforming a lat,lon of a user label to a pair of values {geohash, a randomly select error from 0 to 500}.

A distribution of the generated data is close to uniform for a 90% of data:
[!distribution](https://github.com/sherman/geo-server/blob/master/data/distribution_90.png)

Finally it has two files user_data and distance_error in csv format.

I chose a [geohash](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geohash) for a representation of a cell index in the "grid" table because of two reasons:
* It's deadly simple (compared to r-tree, for example).
* It ideally fit into the task requirements (get a number of users in the cell).

### Basic platform: spring boot (easy REST API, configuration, DI).

### API (json format)

* Check a user coords: GET http://localhost:8080/api/geo/users/356865068291330092/near?lat=55.800113&lon=37.638496739982294
{result: true}

* Get segment size: GET http://localhost:8080/api/geo/hash/size/?lat=55.805113&lon=37.638496739982294
{result: 1719}





